AMP-78252 - Update Node.js migration doc (#830)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/data/sdks/typescript-node/migration.md

---
title: Node.JS SDK Migration Guide

> description: Use this guide to easily migrate from Amplitude's maintenance Node.JS SDK (@amplitude/node) to the latest SDK (@amplitude/analytics-node).

Author: new/old has been replaced in a previous commit

### Initialization

The maintenance Node.js SDK only supports namespace import. The latest Node.js SDK supports namespace import (`import * as amplitude from '@amplitude/analytics-node'`) and named import (`import { init } from '@amplitude/analytics-node'`) as well. We are using named import in the examples of latest Node.js SDK in this documentation.

To initialize the SDK, call `init()`, with a valid Amplitude API Key and configuration parameters.

```diff
- import * as Amplitude from '@amplitude/node'
+ import { init } from '@amplitude/analytics-node';

var options = {};
- const client = Amplitude.init(AMPLITUDE_API_KEY, options);
+ init(API_KEY, options);
```

### Configuration

The latest Node.js SDK configuration comes in a different shape. Some configurations are no longer supported.

|@amplitude/node|@amplitude/analytics-node|
|-|-|
| `debug` | `logLevel` set to WARN level|
| `logLevel` | `logLevel` |
| `maxCachedEvents` | `flushQueueSize` |
| `retryTimeouts` | `flushMaxRetries` can only be set to a number instead of an array of number as in `retryTimeouts`
| `optOut` | `optOut` |

> | `retryClass` | CUSTOMIZATION NOT SUPPORT. Retry logic is handled by latest Node.js SDK|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `retryClass` | Not supported. Retry logic is handled internally by latest Node.js SDK|
```

| `transportClass` | `transportProvider` |
| `serverUrl` | `serverUrl` |
| `uploadIntervalInSec` | `flushIntervalMillis` is in milliseconds while `uploadIntervalInSec` is in seconds|
| `minIdLength` | `minIdLength` |

> | `requestTimeoutMillis` | NOT SUPPORT |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requestTimeoutMillis` | Not supported |
```

> | `onRetry` | CUSTOMIZATION NOT SUPPORT. Retry logic is handled by the latest Node.js SDK |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `onRetry` | Not supported. Retry logic is handled internally by the latest Node.js SDK |
```

description: Use this guide to easily migrate from Amplitude's maintenance Node.JS SDK (@amplitude/node) to the new SDK (@amplitude/analytics-node).
---

Amplitude new Node.js SDK (`@amplitude/analytics-node`) features a plugin architecture and built-in type definition. New Node.js SDK isn't backwards compatible with maintenance Node.js SDK `@amplitude/node`. 

To migrate to `@amplitude/analytics-node`, update your dependencies and instrumentation.

## Terminology

* `@amplitude/node`: Maintenance Node.js SDK

> * `@amplitude/analytics-node`: New Node.js SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `@amplitude/analytics-node`: Latest Node.js SDK
```

## Dependency

Uninstall `@amplitude/node` by either `npm uninstall @amplitude/analytics-node` or deleting your dependency list in package.json

```diff
{
    "dependencies": {

> -    "@amplitude/node": "^1",

Reviewer 2: missing the new node dependency

Author: fixed with the same format as RN

    }
}
```

Install `@amplitude/analytics-node` by `npm install @amplitude/analytics-node`.

## Instrumentation

New Node.js SDK offers an API to instrument events. To migrate to it, you need to update a few calls. The following sections detail which calls have changed.

### Initialization

The maintenance Node.js SDK only supports namespace import. The new Node.js SDK supports namespace import (`import * as amplitude from '@amplitude/analytics-node'`) and named import (`import { init } from '@amplitude/analytics-node'`) as well. We are using named import in the examples of new Node.js SDK in this documentation.

> To initialize the SDK, call `init()`, with the user ID and configuration parameters.

Reviewer 2: user id?

Author: Yes, no user id here. Copied from RN unintentionally

|@amplitude/node|@amplitude/analytics-node|
|-|-|
| `debug` | `logLevel` set to WARN level|
| `logLevel` | `logLevel` |
| `maxCachedEvents` | `flushQueueSize` |
| `retryTimeouts` | `flushMaxRetries` can only be set to a number instead of an array of number as in `retryTimeouts`
| `optOut` | `optOut` |
| `retryClass` | CUSTOMIZATION NOT SUPPORT. Retry logic is handled by new Node.js SDK|
| `transportClass` | `transportProvider` |
| `serverUrl` | `serverUrl` |
| `uploadIntervalInSec` | `flushIntervalMillis` is in milliseconds while `uploadIntervalInSec` is in seconds|
| `minIdLength` | `minIdLength` |
| `requestTimeoutMillis` | NOT SUPPORT |
| `onRetry` | CUSTOMIZATION NOT SUPPORT. Retry logic is handled by the new Node.js SDK |

### Tracking events

#### `logEvent()`

The `logEvent()` API maps to `track()`.

```diff
+ import { track } from '@amplitude/analytics-node';

const eventProperties = {
    buttonColor: 'primary',
};

- client.logEvent({
-     event_type: 'Button Clicked',
-     user_id: 'user@amplitude.com',
-     event_properties: eventProperties
- });
+ track('Button Clicked', eventProperties, {
+     user_id: 'user@amplitude.com',

> + });

Reviewer 2: track method also supports the event object as a first parameter.

Author: Change it to track event object which is more similar as the old example

```

#### `flush()`

The `flush()` API remains the same.

```diff
+ import { flush } from '@amplitude/analytics-node';

- client.flush();
+ flush();
```

### Set user properties

#### `identify()`

> The `identify()` API is very similar but has a different signature. The [old Node.js SDK](https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-Node/blob/2ef295e1fb698286d606ea4a2ccbbfdc4ba3fdc8/packages/node/src/nodeClient.ts#L142) has a signature `(userId: string | null, deviceId: string | null, identify: Identify)` while the [new Node.js SDK](https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-TypeScript/blob/8f4ea010279fb21190a2c0595d4ae8a7d9e987ce/packages/analytics-core/src/core-client.ts#L62) has a signature `(identify: Identify, eventOptions?: EventOptions)`.

Reviewer 2: Can you use maintenance, and latest instead of old and new? Please align the word in other places.

Reviewer 2: Do you think we should mention the deiceId and the userId in eventOptions can overwrite set the client deviceId and client userId? and what eventOptions look like.

Author: Replace all old, new -> maintenance, latest to align with other docs. 

It makes sense to add what `eventOptions` is like. How about [a link to github](https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-TypeScript/blob/8f4ea010279fb21190a2c0595d4ae8a7d9e987ce/packages/analytics-types/src/base-event.ts#L12) Feel like it would be enough

> Do you think we should mention the deiceId and the userId in eventOptions can overwrite set the client deviceId and client userId?
Could you elaborate on this?

Author: We had a quick call and agree that
- use github page link
- only next-gen client-side `identify()` also sets user id and device id if they are in event options, but node.js is a server-side SDK
